---
title: "Special Purpose Entities"
chapter_number: 3
---

Of all stimulus to be expected when peering through the bottom crack of a door, behind which an illicit conversation was taking place, nudging your phone's microphone by millimeters to see if you can make the waveform bounce a few pixels higher, one would consider a spitball delivered perfectly behind the ear to rank pretty low on the list, being fairly unlikely. But Jerika Jensen had already been having a fairly unlikely sort of day.

She hurriedly covered her own mouth to stop an instinctual gasp from escaping, noticed how her hands reeked of old, flat carpet, before casting her gaze back towards the direction of the attack.

"Max?" She mouthed. No silhouette appeared in the dim fluorescent hallway, but a legal-paper aeroplane, haphazardly creased yet gliding in abject serenity towards her other palm completed its arc and settled with a soft rustle right in front of her. The handwriting was almost too nice for the rush in which it had been composed.

<note>

You are dumb, and this is a bad idea. 

Read the previous sentence again. 

Again. 

Again. 

Okay. 

But, if you want my help doing this very bad idea, then crawl back down the hallway and slip into the conference room behind the NORTH DOOR (code 1234 (yes, that's really it)). If you go in the SOUTH DOOR, that opens up to the warehouse, and you will die. Go to the NORTH DOOR.

</note>

Any tension she had felt cowered in the presence of the massive *groan* her brain made upon learning that Max wrote exactly as he talked. Nevertheless, she complied with the instructions to the letter, other than reading that first sentence for the third time.

But, when she finally felt the presence of a non-hostile as she slipped through the crack of the conference room door, a chink showed in the armor, and the tickling of a smile pulled at her cheeks. "Wow, I'm so glad you--"

"Don't get the wrong idea," he huffed. She could smell the sweat through the detergent on his clothes. "That cop's still on the road and you're my ride back."

"Right right. Understood." She stopped stopping herself from grinning. "You know, you can just wait here, if you want. I've got things pretty well under-control. Just run over if I yell or text or anything."

Max frowned and pressed his palm against his head. "And what, exactly, are you trying? Voice memos on Android? Please." He yanked her phone out of her hand, mysteriously entered the correct PIN on the first try, scrubbed back a few minutes on the timeline, and pressed play.

"Heh ee woh--ih nev-feffer? Iss geh sick, seven ay-o tuwa mmf... nono, *ay* tuwa mmf ng. Sore? Sore--"

Jerika used two hands to wrestle her phone back from him, no easy feat given the clamminess of his fingers. The last pull nearly sent her tumbling over the cheaply-stitched rolling chair behind her, and it wobbled suspiciously for three whole seconds. "That's fine. My phone has an auto-transcript app for this stuff."

"Okay." He nodded. "Do the auto-transcription. Let's see."

```
There she goes. It's never pepper. 

If you're getting sick, seven days of tuna melt. 

No, eight days of tuna melt. 

More? Torn.
```

"Alas, the AI revolution has finally come for all our jobs." Max nodded sagely.

"This used to work perfectly back on campus..." Jerika bit her cheek. "Well, it sounds close enough to me. Don't mafia people have a lingo that they use, anyway? This could just be that. Still incriminating."

He sighed. "Look, JJ, what are we here for? If you wanted, we could go file a police report right now that there was a gunshot in the building. Tell them you suspect mafia connections if you really want to get questioned for an afternoon. Either way, same result; these guys get off scot-free. I've seen it a million times, it's not worth fighting."

She paused. "You've... seen *this*? One *million* times?"

"Well, some hyperbole, but off by less orders of magnitude than you'd--"

"And you just *do nothing*?"

"Also for some value of 'this', I'd clarify. Italian mafia only about one-eighth of the time, off-top."

"Oh, no." Jerika flopped backwards into the chair. The wobbly wheel snapped off and left her tilted rightwards by about 10 degrees. She didn't seem to notice. "Wait. But that means we *could* do something. We're the ones who actually *see* it happen."

"Whoa, hey. I signed up to do enough to get you out of here. The feds have their jobs. I have mine."

Her ears had perked forward when he said the word 'feds'. She drew a deep breath, then opened her eyes. "Fine. This situation. What did you have in mind?"

"Thought you'd never ask." Quicker, than she could blink, he produced a laptop and opened it to the first slide of a presentation entitled 'how to not get both of us killed', plain black text on a white background, upon which he lingered for ten seconds longer than situationally advisable. "First, you realize that we're not in a Bond movie."

---

